Commit Messages Lesson: Add examples of a good and bad commit message (#25673)
TheOdinProject/curriculum: git/foundations_git/commit_messages.md

-   Having a good commit message history will also be helpful if you come back to a project you were working on after stepping away from it for a while. You likely won't remember your thought process and changes made when initially writing out the code. 

### Bad vs. Good Commits

When it comes to writing commits, it is crucial to know how to write them effectively. Here's an example of a bad commit message:

`fix a bug`

> Even though it describes what you did, the message is too vague, which leaves the other developers on your team confused. A good commit message will have a body and a subject. Here is a template to keep in mind when creating your commit message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though it describes what you did, the message is too vague, which leaves the other developers on your team confused. A good commit message will explain the why behind your changes. In other words what problem your changes solve and how it solves them. 

Effective commits consist of two separate parts, a subject and a body:
```

## Subject
An abbreviation that specifies an action that your line of code is doing(e.g., feat and fix) 

> `Commit type:`

Reviewer: Nit: Will learners understand what commit type means here? do we cover it elsewhere? IMO, we should leave the "commit type" out. This lesson common pretty early in the curriculum and knowing the difference between different types of commits might not be useful/practical for learners yet.

Author: Good point @KevinMulhern, but learners could benefit from learning the abbreviations early. It'll help them develop good commit writing habits now than having to relearn this later on when they work on open-source projects and at their jobs. This is something I experienced when I started learning Git, and I don't want them to go through the same exact thing.

Reviewer: I appreciate that point of view, but if we include "commit type" we'll have to explain what that means. Which will require us to have full explanations of what feature, chore and fix commits are. Learners won't get any value from that at this, _very_ early point in the curriculum. It muddies the water and will distract them from the main points we're trying to get across with this lesson. 

I've no objections with adding it to a later Git lesson though.

Author: Hey @KevinMulhern. I thought about what you said and decided to go with your advice. By putting `fix` or `feat`, we'd have to explain what that is, and that could cause cognitive overload, something we want to avoid.

Reviewer: haha it's all good, cognitive overload is a great way of putting it. We're big believers in drip feeding in things exactly when they are needed. Build learners knowledge up gradually without overwhelming them 💪

## Body
A concise yet clear description of what you did 

> `Commit type: body`

Reviewer: I think theres a bit of a misunderstanding @CBID2, this isn't a body, it's a subject.

If you haven't already, I recommend giving [the assignment](https://cbea.ms/git-commit/) in this lesson a quick read. It explains commit subject and body (with examples) in more detail and should give you a better idea.

-   Having a good commit message history will also be helpful if you come back to a project you were working on after stepping away from it for a while. You likely won't remember your thought process and changes made when initially writing out the code. 

### Bad vs. Good Commits

When it comes to writing commits, it is crucial to know how to write them effectively. Here's an example of a bad commit message:

> `fix a bug`

Reviewer: Nit: Can we change this from inline code formatting to a full code block please? it's a bit more readable and stands out better.

```suggestion
~~~
fix a bug
~~~
```

It'll look like this on the site:
<img width="839" alt="Screenshot 2023-06-28 at 00 54 25" src="https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/assets/7963776/885d0021-c763-4d89-9a71-516e53fb0c8b">

As opposed to the inline code formatting:
<img width="631" alt="Screenshot 2023-06-28 at 00 53 51" src="https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/assets/7963776/773ef16d-34ca-4306-bef5-e4d8c890ccd2">

> Even though it describes what you did, the message is too vague, which leaves the other developers on your team confused. A good commit message will explain the why behind your changes. In other words, a commit message describes what problem your changes solve and how it solves them. 

Reviewer: Nit: just to add emphasis to the "why" and make it clear what the most important take away from this text is.

```suggestion
Even though it describes what you did, the message is too vague, which leaves the other developers on your team confused. A good commit message will explain the **why** behind your changes. In other words, a commit message describes what problem your changes solve and how it solves them. 
```

Effective commits consist of two separate parts: a subject, and a body:

## Subject

> A brief summary of the change you made to the project.  **Note:** GitHub has a 50-character limit so we recommend keeping your commits' subject to within this amount. 

Reviewer: Nit: I think 72 is the max now before it starts cutting it off.

```suggestion
A brief summary of the change you made to the project.  **Note:** GitHub has a 72-character limit so we recommend keeping your commits' subject to within this amount. 
```

`This is the change I made to the codebase.`

> ## Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Body
```

A concise yet clear description of what you did.  

> `Describe the problem that your changes solve and how in 50 words or less`

Reviewer: I agree with putting a constraint on the body length and don't think it's a bad move to include it. But theres no hard and fast rule with this unfortunately. 

I'd rather we omit putting a hard constraint on this to avoid us getting into an endless cycle of future PR's where people disagree with our chosen limit and suggest increasing or decreasing the limit - that kind of thing happens way too often lol. 

Also a code block for this too so we're consistent in the formatting:

```suggestion
~~~
Describe the problem your commit solves and how.
~~~
```

> Now that we learned the secret to creating a good commit message, let's try and fix the commit message from earlier:

Reviewer: Nit: Can we include something about it being best practice to separate the subject from the body with a new / blank line please? and include some reasoning like it makes it easier to tell both apart and makes the overall message easier to read.

> `Add missing link and alt text to company's logo`

Reviewer: Nit: Can we change this to a code block too please?

```suggestion
~~~git
Add missing link and alt text to company's logo

Screen readers won't read the images to users with disabilities without this information
~~~
```

The git at the end of the opening will format it so we have line numbers in the code block. That _should_ make it easy to identify the new line hopefully:

<img width="852" alt="Screenshot 2023-06-28 at 01 30 45" src="https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/assets/7963776/f678d14c-48cc-4b36-a039-93eb525c061d">

`Screen readers won't read the images to users with disabilities without this information`

Ahh, that's better! :) Now, developers can gain a better understanding of this commit message because it does the following:

* Provides a subject that specifies your code's action (e.g., "Add missing link and alt text company's logo")

> * Contains a body that provides a concise yet clear description of what is created (e.g., "Screen readers won't read the images to users with disabilities without this information")

Reviewer: Nit: Just minor rewording to drive home good commit messages primarily provide the "why" for future readers:

```suggestion
* Contains a body that provides a concise yet clear description of why the commit needed to be made (e.g., "Screen readers won't read the images to users with disabilities without this information")
```

-   Having a good commit message history will also be helpful if you come back to a project you were working on after stepping away from it for a while. You likely won't remember your thought process and changes made when initially writing out the code. 

### Bad vs. Good Commits

When it comes to writing commits, it is crucial to know how to write them effectively. Here's an example of a bad commit message:

~~~
fix a bug
~~~

Even though it describes what you did, the message is too vague, which leaves the other developers on your team confused. A good commit message will explain the **why** behind your changes. In other words, a commit message describes what problem your changes solve and how it solves them. 

Effective commits consist of two separate parts: a subject, and a body:

#### Subject
A brief summary of the change you made to the project.  **Note:** GitHub has a 72-character limit so we recommend keeping your commits' subject to within this amount. 

> `This is the change I made to the codebase.`

Reviewer: Nit: Code block here too please:

```suggestion
~~~
This is the change I made to the codebase.
~~~
```

#### Body
A concise yet clear description of what you did.  

~~~
Describe the problem your commit solves and how.
~~~

Now that we learned the secret to creating a good commit message, let's try and fix the commit message from earlier:

~~~git
Add missing link and alt text to the company's logo

Screen readers won't read the images to users with disabilities without this information
~~~

> `Screen readers won't read the images to users with disabilities without this information`

Reviewer: Nit: just some leftovers
```suggestion
```

> Ahh, that's better! :) Now, developers can gain a better understanding of this commit message because it does the following:

Reviewer: Forgot to comment on this the first run through, but this breakdown is a really nice touch 🏆

Author: You're welcome! :) I want to stay true to your casual and humorous writing style(that's my approach to writing about tech by the way 😆)
